Discussion about model structure

The fundamental assumption about this model that makes it different is two fold:
1) The most important element of deciding the outcome of a hepatitis C infection is age. 
2) The most important mode of transmission of hepatitis C in Australia is due to sexual partners sharing injecting equipment

The individual based structure of the model allows age related calculations to be performed accurately, a limitation of non-individual based modelling. 
Similarly, the sexual network modelling allows estimation of transmission speed in a way that is not possible in other models

Looking at needle sharing, in people who inject drugs, 20% shared needles in the previous month. 
Typically the needle was reused after a single person in 50-70% of cases.
The sexual partner was by far the most to share equipment with. Of reported sharing people over 1995 to 2010
Regular sexual partner 50.6%
Casual sexual partner 5%
Close friend 28%
Acquaintance 11%
Other 5.3% (which is likely to be family)



Inspection of Table 1.2.8 of the NSP show that people who have been injecting less than 3 years have a substantially reduced probability of being HCV 
For people who have been injecting more than 3 years, the likelihood of HCV antibody in people who haven't receptively shared in the last month is very close to the likelihood if they have shared in the last month.
This suggests that people who have not receptively shared in the last month are not always safe injectors, simply that they are safe more often.
In particular, those people who did not receptively share recently may have been receptively sharing at younger ages (due to power or age imbalance in relationships)
This power imbalance is also played out in the much higher prevalence in young females who inject drugs.


Given the low number of people who are who have never tested for HCV in the NSP population, it is expected that there are very few cases of undiagnosed HCV. 

Additionally, HCV antibody prevalence is quite low (~50%). This includes people who have cleared HCV. The implication is that there are very few people who have an active HCV infection at any point in time. 

Following treatment, there are substantial improvements to the histological outcomes of patients
Brian L. Pearlman and Nomi Traub, (2011) Sustained Virologic Response to Antiviral Therapy for Chronic Hepatitis C Virus Infection: A Cure and So Much More
10, 11, 46, 48, 53, 55

Cirrohsis leading to HCC: "Patients with cirrhosis pretreatment are at a low but real risk of HCC after SVR."
Start at Stage 2
82% had improved fibrosis scores
20% had nearly normal livers
George SL (2009), Clinical, virologic, histologic, and biochemical outcomes after successful HCV therapy: a 5-year follow-up of 150 patients.

"In 62% of patients, the last biopsy done showed normal or nearly normal histologic findings." Last biopsy was 5-6 years
Marcellin P (1997) Long-term histologic improvement and loss of detectable intrahepatic HCV RNA in patients with chronic hepatitis C and sustained response to interferon-alpha therapy.


Table 4
In people who are treated at F2-F4 and are sustained responders, fibrosis stage reverses at −0.591 (−0.627;−0.550) steps per year.
Sustained response only occurred in 31% of people in the F2-F4 categories. However this study included numerous observations of people who had treatments that weren't effective. 
Sustained virologic response appears to be worse in treating people with cirrohsis
Poynard 2002 Impact of pegylated interferon alfa-2b and ribavirin on liver fibrosis in patients with chronic hepatitis C

Marcellin and Poynard agree: in 5-6 years, at -0.591 stages per year, an improvement of 3.25 stages

Optimisation
The optimisation is trying to minimise the error in the output as measured by various sources of data
Parameters to optimise
Probability of entering NSP per year while injecting - set? 
Probability of leaving NSP
Parameters that determine entry into the population
Parameters that determine exit from  the population
Parameters that determine transmission rate

Data to optimise against
AIHW ever injector by age
AIHW injected in the last 12 month data
Prevalence in the NSP population
HCV notifications
Median age in NSP group
Median years IDU in NSP group
Duration of injection in NSP group
HCV risk of sharing with time? - maybe this will be hard set
HCV antibody in NSP group
HCV antibody by age in NSP group
HCV antibody by duration of injection in NSP group




Things to add to the simulation
Treatment
Injecting partner







Following optimisation, the testing rate of the system is determined. This is a multivariate testing rate that is dependent on stage of infection, age 